hi this is pressure Locker in this video
I'm going to teach you the lattice
method of multiplication let's say you
wanted to multiply 12 by 13 we'll draw
out a two-by-two table and we'll write
the number 12 in the row and the number
13 in the column now we'll multiply the
number in the column by the number of
the row so 1 times 1 is 1 2 times 1 is 2
1 times 3 is 3 and 2 times 3 is 6 now we
add up the numbers diagonally so this
becomes first agonal of 6 then 2 plus 3
is 5 and our final diagonal is just 1
and that's our answer of 156 let's do
another example of 15 times 21 we'll
draw at our table but this time we'll
actually draw in diagonals so it'll be
easier to add up the numbers when we
multiply the numbers we want to write it
as a two-digit number so 1 times 2 is 0
2 2 times 5 is 10 1 times 1 is 0 1 and 5
times 1 is 0 5 now we add up the numbers
diagonally so the first diagonal is 5
the next is 1 the next is 2 plus 1 is 3
and the final diagonal is 0 so this is 0
3 1 5 which we just write as 315 let's
do an example of three-digit numbers we
need to draw out a 3 by 3 table because
each of the numbers has 3 digits we
write the number 526 in the row and 321
in the column now we multiply each
number in each column by the number of
that particular row the great part about
lattice multiplication is you only have
to know how to multiply simple things
your times table up to 9 because that's
how you can solve for each box
now we'll add up the numbers diagonally
and finally we make one adjustment this
18 we need to carry over the 1 so 7 plus
1 is 8 and that gets us to our answer we
can also use lattice multiplication for
polynomials when we do X plus 2 times X
plus 3 we write X plus 2 in the row and
X plus 3 in the column X times X is an x
squared 2 times X is 2x x times 3 is 3x
and 2 times 3 is 6 we add everything
together grouping together the X terms
we have x squared plus 5x plus 6 I hope
you like this video please subscribe to
my channel you can support me on patreon
to get rewards catch me on my blog bind
your decisions on Twitter at pressure
Locker and you can get my books at
Amazon